Discuss the proxy's origin in more detail (#2692)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-connect-tcp.md

## Problems

> Classic HTTP CONNECT proxies are identified by a host, port, and scheme.  The proxy does not have a path of its own.  This prevents any origin from hosting multiple distinct proxy services.

Reviewer: Classic HTTP CONNECT proxies don't have a scheme.

```suggestion
Classic HTTP CONNECT proxies are identified by a host and port.  The proxy does not have a path of its own.  This prevents any origin from hosting multiple distinct proxy services.
```

Reviewer 2: Hm. Don't they essentially have a scheme? We have both 'HTTP' and 'HTTPS' CONNECT proxies, so that *seems* like a scheme.

Reviewer 3: Yeah maybe "host, port, and use of TLS"?

Scheme is part of URI, but CONNECT does not deal with an URI.

> Classic HTTP CONNECT proxies are usually identified by an "http" or "https" URI ({{?RFC9110, Section 7.3.2}}).  However, this URI cannot specify a non-empty path, because classic CONNECT requests cannot convey any path information.  This prevents any HTTP origin from hosting multiple distinct proxy services.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if the second and third sentence are accurate. It's not only the path; none of the proxy's URI component are conveyed by a CONNECT request. A CONNECT proxy is not an origin in terms of HTTP, it is a proxy.

Maybe something like:
```suggestion
HTTP proxies are usually identified by an "http" or "https" URI ({{?RFC9110, Section 7.3.2}}).  However, HTTP requests do not convey any of the proxy's URI components.  Instead, they only carry the URI of the request target (i.e., the origin) or, in the case of CONNECT requests, the host and port of the target.  This prevents any HTTP server from hosting multiple distinct proxy services.
```

> HTTP proxies are usually identified by an "http" or "https" URI ({{?RFC9110, Section 7.3.2}}).  However, HTTP requests using the proxy do not include any information from this URI.  Instead, they only indicate the URI of the request target (i.e., the origin) or, in the case of CONNECT requests, the host and port of the target.  This prevents any HTTP server from hosting multiple distinct proxy services, as the server cannot distinguish them by path (as with distinct resources) or by origin (as in "virtual hosting").

Reviewer: This text in 9110 is about proxies in general, but doesn't apply to CONNECT proxies. When sending a GET request to a proxy, the scheme is present - but not for CONNECT. I think we were better off with the previous wording.

Author: GET requests to an HTTP request proxy carry the scheme of the target origin, not the proxy.  I don't see any indication that the text in 9110 is about request proxies but excludes CONNECT proxies, especially since CONNECT was always designed to be used alongside HTTP request proxying with the same proxy server (for "https" and "http" target origins, respectively).

Reviewer: Section 7.3.2 of 9110 (and 7.3 more broadly) are specifically about routing _requests_. CONNECT is a means to establish a connection, not a way to send requests. From that section:
> the client connects inbound by establishing (or reusing) a connection to that proxy and then sending it an HTTP request message containing a request target that matches the client's target URI.

In the use-case of HTTPS-over-TLS-over-CONNECT-over-HTTP, the request message to the CONNECT proxy contains a request target that does *not* match the end-to-end target URI. So this section doesn't apply to CONNECT.

But perhaps a more productive path forward would be to focus on the fact that regular CONNECT doesn't carry a scheme nor path, and make some assertions specific to templated CONNECT. We might not agree on the details of what 9110 says, but I think we all agree that (1) regular CONNECT has pitfalls and (2) we know how to fix them in templated CONNECT - so might be best to focus on those points

Reviewer 3: @DavidSchinazi 
> So this section doesn't apply to CONNECT.

This is true, but I wonder if the fact requires any changes to the text being proposed.

FWIW, the text says that "(the requests) only indicate the URI of the request target (i.e., the origin) or, in the case of CONNECT requests, the host and port of the target," which is accurate for CONNECT.

I think we agree on the pitfalls, and this paragraph is trying specifically to explain one of the pitfalls (i.e., why virtual hosting is impossible).

Is it the case that the proposed text is hard to digest?

Reviewer: I think it's just the first sentence that bugs me because it doesn't match my understanding of CONNECT. A minimal change could be:

```suggestion
HTTP clients can be configured to use proxies by selecting a proxy hostname, a port, and whether to use a security protocol. However, CONNECT requests using the proxy do not carry this configuration information. Instead, they only indicate the hostname and port of the target. This prevents any HTTP server from hosting multiple distinct proxy services, as the server cannot distinguish them by path (as with distinct resources) or by origin (as in "virtual hosting").
```

Reviewer 3: @DavidSchinazi Yeah, I get the confusion. While people may repurpose URIs for specifying proxies, it is questionable if everyone is used to thinking that way. In that sense I like your text.

> Ordinarily, HTTP allows multiple origin hostnames to share a single server IP address and port number (i.e., virtual-hosting), by specifying the applicable hostname in the "Host" or ":authority" header field.  However, classic HTTP CONNECT proxies use these fields to indicate the CONNECT request's destination ({{?RFC9112, Section 3.2.3}}), leaving no way to distinguish multiple proxies on one server.  As a result, classic HTTP CONNECT proxies cannot be deployed using virtual-hosting, nor can they apply the usual defenses against server port misdirection attacks (see {{Section 7.4 of ?RFC9110}}).  The absence of an explicit origin for the proxy also creates ambiguity about the use of origin-scoped response header fields such as Alt-Svc {{?RFC7838}} and Strict-Transport-Security {{?RFC6797}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ordinarily, HTTP allows multiple origin hostnames to share a single server IP address and port number (i.e., virtual-hosting), by specifying the applicable hostname in the "Host" or ":authority" header field.  However, classic HTTP CONNECT proxies use these fields to indicate the CONNECT request's destination ({{?RFC9112, Section 3.2.3}}), leaving no way to distinguish multiple proxy origins on one server.  As a result, classic HTTP CONNECT proxies cannot be deployed using virtual-hosting, nor can they apply the usual defenses against server port misdirection attacks (see {{Section 7.4 of ?RFC9110}}).  The absence of an explicit origin for the proxy also creates ambiguity about the use of origin-scoped response header fields such as Alt-Svc {{?RFC7838}} and Strict-Transport-Security {{?RFC6797}}.
```

Reviewer 3: I actually prefer @bemasc's text here. The term "Proxy origin" sounds confusing to me, as origin is the CONNECT destination in case of traditional CONNECT. "Proxy" is more succinct and serves the purpose.

Reviewer 3: Yeah "proxy" is a term defined in https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#section-3.7-5, I think we might want to refer to that definition, considering that this is an HTTP extension.

Regarding how we talk, I think things might become clearer if we talk about "HTTP proxies" here. HTTP proxies are identified by host, port, and use of TLS. Traditional CONNECT is just one way of using the HTTP proxies.

Would could point that out, then explain that we are creating a way to establish a TCP tunnel "through HTTP origin."

Author: OK, I've added a reference to that section and clarified that we mean "HTTP proxy".

> Ordinarily, HTTP allows multiple origin hostnames to share a single server IP address and port number (i.e., virtual-hosting), by specifying the applicable hostname in the "Host" or ":authority" header field.  However, classic HTTP CONNECT proxies use these fields to indicate the CONNECT request's destination ({{?RFC9112, Section 3.2.3}}), leaving no way to distinguish multiple proxies on one server.  As a result, classic HTTP CONNECT proxies cannot be deployed using virtual-hosting, nor can they apply the usual defenses against server port misdirection attacks (see {{Section 7.4 of ?RFC9110}}).  The absence of an explicit origin for the proxy also creates ambiguity about the use of origin-scoped response header fields such as Alt-Svc {{?RFC7838}} and Strict-Transport-Security {{?RFC6797}}.

Reviewer 3: Expanding on my comment above, how about something like:
```suggestion
An ordinary HTTP request involves a URI, which includes an origin as a property. Since clients specify origins in HTTP requests using the "Host" or ":authority" header field, servers can colocate multiple origins on a single server IP address and port number, a practice known as virtual hosting. However, the classic CONNECT method is an exception. It targets a proxy, and the hostname of the proxy is not included in the HTTP request. As a result, classic CONNECT cannot be deployed using virtual hosting, nor can it implement the usual defenses against server port misdirection attacks (see {{Section 7.4 of ?RFC9110}}). The absence of an explicit origin for the proxy also creates ambiguity about the use of origin-scoped response header fields such as Alt-Svc {{?RFC7838}} and Strict-Transport-Security {{?RFC6797}}.
```

~~~
{: title="Templated TCP proxy example in HTTP/2"}

## Use of Relevant Headers

> A templated TCP proxy has an unambiguous origin of its own.  Origin-scoped HTTP header fields such as Alt-Svc {{?RFC7838}} and Strict-Transport-Security {{?RFC6797}} apply to this origin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A templated TCP proxy has an unambiguous origin of its own.  Origin-scoped HTTP header fields such as Alt-Svc {{?RFC7838}} and Strict-Transport-Security {{?RFC6797}} apply to this origin when they are associated with a templated TCP proxy request or response.
```

> In a web browser, authentication for templated TCP proxy requests uses a "407 (Proxy Authentication Required)" response, and the "Proxy-Authenticate" and "Proxy-Authorization" header fields.  Non-proxy-related requests to the same origin continue to use "WWW-Authenticate" and "Authorization" header fields.  This distinction is not technically required, but it may facilitate separation of credentials between the browser and the webpage contents.

Reviewer: I have a few concerns related to this paragraph. First, this isn't specific to Web browsers. Second, this should be written as normative text, as it isn't clear to me if it is trying to convey MUST or SHOULD. Third, I think both Proxy-Authorization and Authorization make sense here just like they both make sense for GET - because you can have an intermediary between the client and proxy. But overall, this topic warrants its own discussion. Can we split this off to its own issue and PR?

Reviewer 3: Agreed that if we are to add this paragraph we need to open a specific issue.

FWIW, [RFC 9110 Section 11.6](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-authenticating-users-to-ori) states that WWW-Authenticate, Authorization, and 401 deals with origins (or the target resource). I would personally be surprised if we are to use the proxy variants here.

Author: OK, I removed this paragraph and opened #2694 to discuss.
